How the S-Curve works


There is no one S-Curve. In this project multiple orders of S-Curves were implemented.
These curves get their name since they lack sharp turns, as seen in trapezoidal, or square
wave forms. 

Each implementation of an S-Curve in this project is specifically refering to the 
velocity as a function of time waveform, unless said otherwise. The velocity waveform
was selected because the electrical control signal being sent to the stepper motor
is directly translated into radial velocity. 

The stepper motor in this project drives the gears of a belt. On the belt is a platform.
The position of the platform can be manipulated by controlling the velocity of the 
motor. In order to command the platform to move a specified distance, the motor needs
to actuate. 

Suppose it was desired to move the platform a distance of 1 meter. If the motor were to 
instantaneously reach a velocity of 1 meter per second and operate at that velocity for
one second and then instantaneously stop moving, then it would have traveled the meter
distance. The velocity of the platform can be plotted on an XY plane, with velocity
on the Y-axis and time on the X-axis. The shape of the function would be a square or
rectangle. There would be very sharp (90 degree) transitions from running at 1 m/s to
0 m/s. This waveform can be diffentiated to produce the accelration versus time 
waveform. Since the velocity graph was a squre, it can be represented as a step function
at the transition from 0 to 1 m/s velocity at time zero and as a step down function from 1 
to 0 m/s velocity at a time of 1 second. The derivative of a step function is a Dirac 
delta function, therefore the acceleration waveform is composed of a positive Dirac delta 
at time zero and a negative Dirac delta at time of 1 second. The problem with this model
is that force is the product of mass and acceleration, therefore when the acceleration
waveform contains instantaneous transitions then the physical system will be adversely 
effected. These effects are primarily residual vibrations.

A square waveform for the velocity function is not physically possible. The motor cannot
intantaneously transition from a resting position to a high velocity. The motor has to
build up to that velocity. If the transition from 0 velocity to the desired velocity was 
linear then the velocity waveform would be trapezoidal. There would be linear growth, 
followed by the constant desired velocity followed by a downward linear period. Then if 
this waveform were differnetiated it would be found that the acceleration waveform would
be a positeve square followed by zero acceleration followed by a negative square. If then,
the acceleration waveform were differentiated, then the jerk waveform would be produced. In 
this scenario, where velocity is a trapezoidal form, then jerk would be characterized by a 
series of Dirac delta pulses. The series would be positive pulse, space, negative pulse, 
space, negative pulse, space, positive pulse. This model shows an improvement fromthe square
waveform in the velocity function as seen before, since there is less instantaneous change in
acceleration. 

The S-Curve is similar to the square waveform and the trapezoidal waveform. For an object to
move on a direct path from some initial position to some final position, it must aquire some
velocity and lose that velocity to stop. In order to aquire velocity it must accelerate and 
decelerate, to lose the velocity it must decelerate and accelerate. Acceleration is produced 
by jerk, jerk by snap, snap by crackle, crackle by pop, and so on and so forth. Each 
derivative oscillates polarity twice as much as its integral. Therefore by following the
pattern of the square and trapezoidal waveforms, an S-curve can be formed by assigning a
series of Dirac pulses to the snap as a function of time waveform. When this snap waveform is
integrated, the jerk function becomes a series of squre waves. Integrating jerk reveals that
acceleration is a trapezoidal wave followed by a negative trapezoidal wave. When acceleration
is integrated, an S-curve is produced. This is because the linear phase of the trapezoid when
integrated becomes a parabolic function, the constant portion becomes a linear ramp, and so on.

This model can then be further expanded. The next order s-curve would be produced by assigning 
the series of Dirac pulses to the next lower differentiation. Since snap was assigned the 
Dirac pulses last, it would be crackle that would get them this time. This trend can be continued
indefinitely.
